The catastrophic earthquake left a big part of the city of Sendai in a disastrous state. Massive amounts of rubble and debris are now lying where a lively part of the city used to be. One of the bigger challenges now is the removal of all that massive pile of rubble. 
The percentages of the remaining debris that now cover many square kilometres over the site are at least 50% recyclable or re-usable materials and another 50% of waste and unusable elements. Our proposal has to do with the management of that massive problem in the area, along with a memorial suggestion, because it is always good to forget a disaster but also wise to get reminded of such unfortunate possibilities.
The rubble can be lightly processed for a minor separation. The unusable can be pilled in a certain location of the city forming an artificial hill. The artificial hill can be covered in soil, which is in excess in the area, creating a potential green hill or a park for the people to visit. The idea has to do with offering something useable to the future welfare and solving a massive problem of the existing debris in the same time. 
The memorial comes as a scar to the artificial hill, in the form of a chasm that separates the hill, but creates a path inside it. The path reveals the nature of the hill and the existing of the rubbles. A reminder that a great tsunami passed through the site and spread a massive disaster. The same remains of that town are now pilled in that beautiful hill. 
The path can only come as a contrast to the beautiful, green, artificial hill, with walls made of the existing rubble, dark, with foul smell and a sense of pressure between the opposite walls. Creating uncomfortable feelings with a straight view to the sea, which is where the disaster came from. In the end of the path the memorial begins. A series of constructed paths inside the walls which contain information about the earthquake, the tsunami and everything that has to do with that disaster. A way out that takes you back from the uncomfortable experience in a more civilised, safe and informative way, leading to the present green hill park.
The construction of the hill in the area of the chasm and the memorial, takes a modular form using large gabions. The extracted steel from the rubbles is recycled and formed into specific dimensioned cages that contain the unusable rubble. Then like oversized ‘bricks’ form the chasm creating two opposing retaining walls. The excess of the rubble are placed around those walls creating/forming the core of the hill.

